In the previous lecture we have been talking about bagging and we have come to the conclusion that the
problem as far as bagging is concerned that deconstructed that decision trees are highly correlated.
So are there any solutions.
Of course that's why random forest classifiers came to be so it is better than begging this algorithm
DeCola is the single decision trees that has been constructed.
So this is the main advantage of random forest classifier that constructed decision trees are not going
to be correlated which reduces the variance even more of an ever reaching the trees.
So it is very very similar to begging.
We keep constructing decision trees on the training data but on every split in the tree a random selection
of features is chosen from the full feature set.
So as far as begging is concerned when we have constructed the decision trees in every single decision
tree we have used all the features so one had all the features 3:2 had all the features desired.
We had all the features and so on as far as random for us classify or Wisconsin on every split in the
tree.
A random selection of features is chosen from the full feature set.
OK a good question is how to define how many features to consider the number of features.
Consider it a given split is approximately equal to the square root of the total number of features.
So for begging the algorithm searches over all the features to find the best feature that best splits
the data at death no for random Firdous classifier the algorithm searches over a random or square root
and features to find the best one.
And because the algorithm is still has a stake in the sense that it is going to search over a random
number of features hands that name random for us classifier.
OK so we have the original dataset with several features.
For example when dealing with the iris dataset we have four features sample length Seppala with pattern
length and pattern here and on every split.
A random number of features is going to be selected.
What's going to be the random number of features.
The square root of N where N is the number of features.
Square root of 4 is equal to 2.
Which means that on every split the algorithm is going to sell at two random features in the first split
sample Langston Seppala with are going to be the features.
Then people are weird and sample rate for example than Pat Palenque and sub-Planck.
So instead of using all the features as we have seen for begging random for us classifier on the other
hand is going to use just a subset of the features.
OK so we have the X original data set.
Again we are going to construct several decision trees.
But instead of using all the features every single decision tree is going to use just a subset of the
original features and want features and features and ESRI features and for features and so on.
And that's why these decision trees are going to be uncorrelated.
So the first three is going to make a decision.
For example the prediction based on the first decision tree is Clauss.
See the second decision tree is going to make a decision.
The dessert tree is going to make a decision a Class B and Class C for the final decision tree.
Random forest classifier is going to vote according to these predictions.
And because we have just a single class the a single clause B.
But as you can see we have two predictions as far as a class C is concerned.
The final class is going to be the Class C.
So this is how random for s classifier works.
And why is it good.
Because if one or a few features are very strong predictors for the response variety all these features
will be selected in many of the decision trees so eventually they will become correlated.
But it is not a huge problem.
We would like to avoid every single decision tree to be correlated.
Of course there are going to be several decision trees that's going to correlate with each other but
not all the trees are going to be correlated.
OK so the huge advantage that at some point the variance starts decreasing.
No matter how many more trees we are to our Random forest.
So it is not going to produce overfitting.
So finally with the help of a random forest classifier we are to reduce variance hands we are able to
reduce overfitting.
So the first step is to use pruning.
OK.
We can do better with begging.
Begging is a good approach.
But all the decision trees will be correlated.
That's why random for plastic classifier is the best solution possible.
It's going to make sure that these trees are going to be correlated.
That's why it's going to be the best solution possible in the coming lectures.
We are going to see lots of lots of examples as far as random for us classifier is concerned.
Thanks for watching.